[Applause]
thank you so much I thought I would
speak not about the genesis of my book
but really about the genesis of this
particular talk I was giving a talk on
on my work my scientific work on cancer
about two weeks three weeks ago and I
just stepped off the podium when a woman
who had a history of breast cancer and
the Braca one mutation the genetic
history of breast cancer that had run
through her family she confronted me and
she said can I eliminate this mutation
from my family forever
what would I what would you do what
would happen if I could change the
future lineage of of my family so that
my children would never have to face the
kinds of crises I faced in my life she
was she had breast cancer herself so
that's the question I want to take up a
little bit it's the end of the question
really occurs at the end of the book of
the gene in the last section of the gene
and and I'd like to begin by by
reminding us that if let's say your
genome was printed on a in a book format
with the letters ACTG
and it was printed like a book it would
be seventy full volumes of the
Encyclopedia Britannica so every edge of
this room and flowing into the next room
would be lined with with one person's
genome printed ACTG si si si T like this
and you'd come into and you didn't you
could inhabit your own genome and the
question that is that this woman was
asking was an interesting question which
is what can we read now from that
encyclopedia how much of that
encyclopedia is readable and the second
question is what if we learn to write
instructions into the encyclopedia what
if I could say go to volume 317 over in
that corner and erase one word maybe
that word specifies the gene for Braca
one
and substitute the corrected word in its
place
so this capacity to read and write
information is of course gets to the
question of who we are
and that's the question that the last
half of the gene raises that these are
not abstract questions for me because as
I described in the first part of the
book my own family has a striking
history of genetic illness in the form
of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder as
I speak I have one cousin who is
institutionalized permanently in
Calcutta for for his schizophrenia and
so this is not an abstraction for me
when we learn to read and write
information about our genomes what will
happen to our capacity to understand
illnesses such as schizophrenia mental
illness breast cancer and other
illnesses so I want to take a little bit
of a journey through that through that
story this reading and writing story and
end up asking some hopefully provocative
questions about how to enter this how
we're going to enter this conversation
as we move forward many of you know that
the as far as reading is concerned the
draft sequence of the human genome was
published in 2001 and by the draft
sequence that really means that we now
have a template along which we can
essentially read virtually every part of
every individual genome it the costs
have come down strikingly to read the
active parts of a single human genome
was you know what used to take on the
order of several million to nearly a
billion dollars now to read the active
parts of a human genome it takes about a
thousand dollars per person and that
cost will come down even more maybe at
by a factor of ten
so we've acquired the capacity to read
the genome and just to remind ourselves
one thing that's told one of the things
that's told us is that the difference
between you and you really amounts to
maybe less than one of those volumes of
the Encyclopedia the difference between
you and your sibling who has the
relevant difference between you and your
sibling who may have a lethal disease
such as cystic fibrosis maybe three or
four letters in that in that
encyclopedia the relevant difference
between you and a patient with
Huntington's disease who will surely die
of Huntington's disease is maybe one
page and here's what's important in a
time when when the when the word race
has overtaken our culture and and
dominated politics the difference
between you and anyone else from the of
another so-called human race maybe four
or five pages or six pages of that
entire Encyclopedia Britannica it's just
a reminder of to have some humility
about about how much what the genome is
telling us about human beings so this
was this was what happened by the 2000s
in terms of reading genomes and and by
the by the 1990s we were also beginning
to put genetic information into human
genomes this is Jesse Gelson jur he was
one of the first children on whom gene
therapy was attempted and attempt to put
a foreign gene into his body
but sadly he died of that of that he was
one of the first deaths from gene
therapy so it was a reminder by the by
the late 1990s that although we had
learned so much about the human genome
there was yet much to learn so by in
about a decade since that time two new
questions to new frontiers have come
about and this really changes the stakes
of what we can and cannot do and that is
that we are now entering a new world one
of them is that we're reading the genome
before the embryo or egg is implanted
that changes the stakes because all of a
sudden rather than waiting to read it as
an adult you can make a decision whether
to implant or not implant in embryo
based on what what what are genetic
sequences so to go back to this woman
with the breast cancer mutation she
could in principle the scientific
technology exists in her case she could
choose to not implant an egg or an
embryo which carried that mutation
that's not if we are already there that
that technology already exists and again
going back to Jesse Gallinger as a
because a different example you know in
his case the the genetic information was
in it was placed inside cells of his
body but that couldn't be transmitted to
his child or his child's child but now
we can be were beginning to invent
technologies in the last five years
where we can introduce genetic changes
before the making of sperm and eggs and
it's a quick sort experiment to make us
understand why that's relevant that's
relevant because now you can essentially
place information into the human genome
permanently to be inherited generation
after generation so this has been called
pre-implantation genetic diagnosis this
kind of reading and this kind of writing
has been called
Sumati online not somatic not not the
soma of the body but germline gene
therapy in which case you would in you
change the genetic information in the
germline and this is just to remind us
that you know I just I just found this
found this little snippet of a book but
this is just to remind us again that we
now have the capacity combining these
two technologies to start writing
information deliberately and consciously
into the human genome so so what have we
learned from this reading and writing
process as we move forward what we've
learnt several things where here is a
kind of important these are these are
some natural limitations to how quickly
and deeply we can intervene the first
thing we've learned is that most human
traits are controlled by multiple genes
most common diseases don't have a single
gene grackle one is maybe an exception
cystic fibrosis is an exception
Huntington's disease is a famous
exception many have sorry many have
genetic links with the exact genes are
unknown that's true for schizophrenia we
know schizophrenia is a genetic disease
but really most of the genes for
schizophrenia are unknown there's still
a role for environment and chance here
and finally that when we do move forward
with these the idea of a genetic report
card it will only give us propensity
xand not certainties about our future
risk so these five principles are
natural constraints as to how quickly
and effectively
we might wish to intervene on human
genomes everything that we do won't have
that they'll be there will be there will
be some natural constraints to what we
can count Eve but that said while all of
these natural constraints are being
recognized in terms of what can what we
can do we are actually moving forward
with making deliberate changes in the
human genome
this is Jennifer Doudna one of the
scientists is a whole group of them
who's been responsible actually figuring
out technologies that allow us to
essentially this is this is obviously a
graphic but essentially make make a
deliberate changes in the human genomes
as I said I used the example of a
bracket1 mutation you could you could
essentially redirect that to a change in
the in the human genome the last piece
of technology that comes into play here
is that we that would all be fine we
could read and write human genomes but
the capacity to transmitted information
into sperm and eggs was missing and
really in the last two years biologists
have come upon that piece of technology
as well so we can now make changes we've
learned to make changes in cells that
produce sperm and eggs and once you make
the changes if you could use this kind
of making of a change for instance into
a mutation that causes breast cancer you
would be able in principle to create a
sperm that now lacks that that genetic
mutation and if that sperm was to be
made into an embryo you would now
eliminate that bracket1 inherited
forever and that's been finally
compounded by the most exciting and the
most threatening idea of all which is
that we can now make entirely synthetic
human genomes or synthetic genomes
potentially from by making a chemical
form of the doctor gene so the question
that's on everyone's minds is will there
be designer babies well the answer is
not soon we've started creating these
technologies but the old questions about
eugenics still apply which is that once
we start entering this world we will
soon begin to enter a world in which our
aspirations and desires as human beings
will be or will not be reflected in what
kind of children we have I'm going to
end by by pointing out the the idea that
this is we're at the edge of this
precipice and therefore the questions of
what to do about it have started
reverberating widely around the world
and this is one example of a report this
was brought out by the National Academy
of Sciences to ask the question should
we intervene on human genomes in a way
that allows this intervention to carry
forward in generation after generation
and I'd like to end by reading this this
this point which is because germline
genome edits would be heritable and now
you know why their effects could be
multi-generational as a result both the
potential benefits and potential harms
could be multiplied in addition the
notion of intentional germline genetic
alteration has occasioned significant
debate about the wisdom and
appropriateness of this form of
intervention because these include
concerns about diminishing the dignity
of humans respect for their variety
failing to appreciate the importance of
the natural world and a lack of humility
about our wisdom and powers of control
and altering that word or people within
it and so the shocking thing about about
this report which really made people
think take a step back and think was
that they concluded that in fact for the
first time they did think it was
permissible to make germline genome
edits in human sperm and eggs under
these conditions that there'd be no
other reasonable alternatives that the
genes result in a serious disease of
conditions so-called extraordinary
suffering and that they have a strong
predisposition to that disease or
condition so the genie of the gene is
now it at least by divided by this
recommendation of this report
technically out of the box we can now
allow to consider making genetic
interventions in humans and the question
that I will leave us with is a question
that I think all of us need to
participate in which is what is the
future of an organism
that is learned to decipher the code of
its own instructions that's the question
implicit in the gene and I hope that we
can use the book in many other books to
really think about what happens next
thank you very much
[Applause]